Hi everyone.
In this video we will learn single accept statement via multiple accept statement.
Let's start by handling multiple exception with a single accept statement.
To handle multiple exceptions with a single accept statement, you can specify a tuple of exception
types to catch like.
In this example, we have the try block, the code that can raise an exception, and in the accept block
we specify a tuple of exception.
In this example, this tuple contains two exception.
Exception type one and exception type two.
To handle the exception in this example, both exception type one and exception type two are exceptions
that you want to catch.
If the code in the try block raises an instance of either of these exceptions, the code in the accept
block will execute the try block, and in the accept block we add the tuple of exceptions, type error
and value error to handle the exception.
In this example, if the code in the try block raises either a type error or a value error, the code
in the accept block will execute.
Second handling multiple exception with multiple except statements.
Alternatively, you can handle multiple exception with multiple accept statements.
In this case, each accept statement handles a different exception type.
We have the try block.
The code that can raise an exception and we have multiple accept statement.
The first accept type error to handle the type error.
Second, accept value error to handle the value error.
In this example, if the code in the try block raises a type error, the code in the first accept block
will execute if the code raises a value error.
The code in the second accept block will execute.
Just remember and be sure that when using multiple accept statements, it's important to respect the
exception hierarchy in Python.
This means that if you catch a base exception class such as exception, you should catch more specific
exceptions before it.
If you write an accept statement of a more specific class after the base class, the block won't be
executed.
Here, for example, if we start at the first accept except exception or base exception, the second
and the third block will never, ever executed because any exception will be captured in the first level.
Let's go to PyCharm and do a lot of examples to understand more the difference between single accept
statements and multiple accept statements.
First, let's start by handling multiple exception with a single accept statement.
Example one handling zero division error and value error.
In the try block we have two line of code.
The first line arithmetic operation.
A division between two number.
The second line convert a string to integer.
The first line can raise a zero division error.
When the second integer is zero.
The second line can raise a value error.
If the variable we need to convert is not base of ten.
Let's start by the first case.
Let's do a division by zero.
And we see the result.
An error occurred.
Division by zero in the accept block which cuts to exception.
We cut zero Division error.
Let's pass to the second case.
We add a string.
Value that is not base of ten.
An error occurred.
Invalid literal for int with base ten.
This time we catch a value error in the second example.
Handling file not found error and permission error in the try block.
We try to open the file with the mod read.
After that, we try to print the content of the file in the console.
In the except block, we have file not found.
Error and permission error file not found error when we don't have this file.
Permission An error when we don't have permission to read the file.
Let's start by the first case.
File not found error.
I just create a file in the directory.
The name of the file is example two.
TXT.
This file contains hello world!
Let's update the path of this file and execute the code.
File error no such file or directory in this path.
Error we handle the first exception.
File not found.
Error.
Let's fix the path of the file.
For the second case.
Permission.
Error.
Let's see together the permission in this file.
in the terminal.
We have the permission read.
Let's update this permission.
Only to write.
At this moment we have only the permission write in this file.
We don't have the permission read.
Let's execute the code.
And see what will be the result.
File error.
Permission denied.
This is the second exception.
Permission error.
We catch the two.
Exception file not found error and permission.
Error.
In the same accept block.
Let's update add read mode.
We have the permission read for the file.
We have three permission mode.
Read when we have for.
Write when we have two.
And executable mode when we have one.
Let's execute the code again.
In this case we don't have any problem and Print the content of the file in the console.
In the example three handling type error and index error.
In function calls, we have this function.
It takes a list.
We have two lines of code that can raise exception.
The first can raise index error.
The second can raise type error if the item is not a string.
We cannot concatenate integer and string.
Let's execute the first case.
In the first case, we pass a list that contain only three items, which means.
Here we will have index error.
Let's see the result.
Error.
List index out of range.
We catch the index error in the except block.
In the second example.
We will pass a list that contains five items.
Five items.
Because the list starts from zero, data for it will be five.
We try to concatenate five and string.
Python will throw a type error.
Unsupported operand type for plus operator int and str.
In this case we catch the type error like we see here.
We can catch type error or index error in the same except block.
Let's execute the third case.
In this case we pass a string.
And the result is hello world.
Let's go to the second part.
Handling multiple exceptions with multiple except statement.
Let's start by the first example.
We have a try block which contains two line of code.
The first line can raise a value error.
The second line can raise a zero division error.
We define multiple accept statement to handle this block of code.
First accept is value error.
The second is zero division error and the third exception.
When we pass zero as input, we handle the exception.
Zero division error.
Print error.
You can divide by zero.
Like we said, when using multiple accept statements, it's important to respect the exception hierarchy
in Python.
This part we will explain with more details in the next chapter.
And that's it for this video.